.\"	This manual page was originally written by Jan Schaumann
.\"	<jschauma@yahoo-inc.com> in September 2009.
.Dd September 26, 2013
.Dt YVIPAGENT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm yvipagent
.Nd configure a host for participation in one or more DSR VIPs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hv
.Op Fl d Ar dir
.Op Fl f Ar file
check | start | stop
.Sh DESRIPTION
The
.Nm
tool configures a host for participation in one or more IPv4 or IPv6 DSR VIPs.
It does this by parsing the VIP configuration files found in the directory
specified via the
.Fl d
flag and installing the necessary firewall rules, loopback aliases, etc.
.Pp
.Nm
is normally run at system startup time (or manually) from
.Pa /usr/local/etc/rc.d/yvip .
.Pp
.Nm
will assume that it is solely responsible for all interactions of the
given host in any kind of VIPs.
That is, having manually configured loopback aliases, for example, is
likely to lead to undefined behaviour.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width f_file_
.It Fl d Ar dir
Specify the directory in which to look for VIP configuration files.
Conflicts with
.Fl f .
.It Fl f Ar file
Only configure VIPs from the given VIP configuration file.
Conflicts with
.Fl d .
.It Fl h
Print a usage statement and exit.
.It Fl v
Be verbose.  Can be specified multiple times.
.El
.Pp
In addition,
.Nm
requires a mandatory argument
.Ar check ,
.Ar start
or
.Ar stop
to be given.
.Sh DETAILS
The
.Nm
tool requires an argument indicating whether it is configuring or
unconfiguring the host for a VIP.
.Pp
If invoked with the argument being
.Ar check ,
it will perform the following actions for each of the VIPs:
.Bl -bullet -compact -offset indent
.It
ensure none of the VIPs of type L3 DSR have conflicting IP-DSCP pairs
.It
ensure none of the VIPs have an unsupported type
.It
ensure every VIP of type L3 DSR has a DSCP bit defined
.It
ensure very VIP uses a valid IP address
.El
.Pp
If invoked with the argument being
.Ar start ,
it will perform the following actions for each of the VIPs:
.Bl -bullet -compact -offset indent
.It
ensure needed firewall rules are installed (i.e. add if necessary and not
present)
.It
ensure the loopback interface is persistently configured for the given vip
.El
.Pp
If invoked with the argument being
.Ar stop ,
it will perform the following actions for each of the VIPs:
.Bl -bullet -compact -offset indent
.It
persistently unconfigure the loopback interface for this VIP
.It
unload all firewall rules related to L3 DSR
.El
.Pp
Please note that
.Nm
does not perform any kind of input validation on the configuration file
besides syntax checking.
Empty files will be skipped (silently).
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr yvip.conf 5
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
maintainer is
.An Ben Haga
.Aq bhaga@yahoo-inc.com .
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility was originally written by
.An Jan Schaumann
.Aq jschauma@yahoo-inc.com
in September 2009.
